I am George William Gordon born in
1820 in Mavis Bank, Jamaica. I was a
Jamaican businessman and politician who was a
critic of the British policies in my country.
I was executed due to my opinions which
created a huge controversy in Britain,
and I was proclaimed a National Hero of Jamaica.
My father is a Scottish Planter and attorney to
several sugar estates in Jamaica. I went to
live with my godfather in Black River and
completed my education there. Within a year,
I began working in my grandfather’s business.
I became a large landowner,
shopkeeper, produce dealer,
preacher, social worker, and philanthropist.
In the face of attempts to crush the spirit of
the freed people of Jamaica and again reduce
them to slavery, I entered politics and faced
severe odds, as the people whose interests
I sought to serve did not qualify to vote.
I subdivided my own lands, selling farm
lots to the people as cheaply as possible,
and organized a marketing system, through which
they could sell their produce at fair prices.
My public life began about 1844 when I entered
politics as an advocate for the poverty-stricken
African-enslaved peasants. In 1865, the
economic condition in Jamaica had gotten worse.
I spoke openly on behalf of the poor Africans
and with bitter criticism of the government.
During this period of oppression,
the Morant Bay rebellion broke out.
It was led by Paul Bogle, an activist in
revolting against the system of government.
They raided a police station for arms
and the Court House in Morant Bay.
It was from this incident that a warrant was
done for my arrest. As soon as I knew it,
I turned myself in to authorities. Despite
lack of evidence, I was executed in 1865.
In the aftermath of the labor rebellion, I
came to be seen as a precursor of Jamaican
nationalism and was given the nation's highest
honor, Order of National Hero. I lived giving
whatever I had for the less fortunate wishing
for a ripple effect that will spread all over
the world.